Okay, this is going to be an exciting one.
We're going to be talking about product development with quite an
auspicious crew here.
We've got Elliot from Expo.
We've got Reed from Skylight Social.
We've got Eli from Stream Place.
And then we've got Paul Frazee from Blue Sky
.
So I'm going to let him take it away.
All right.
Welcome.
Oh, yeah, we do need the mic.
All right.
Welcome, everyone.
Thank you so much for being here.
Just to start, I would love to have you guys introduce
yourselves, a little bit about yourself, what you're working
on.
Then we'll go from there.
All right.
Sounds good.
Welcome, guys.
Hey.
There we go.
Well, hi, everybody.
I'm Paul Frazee.
I'm the CTO at Blue Sky.
I think the specific reason I'm on the panel is because
back when Blue Sky was very small, I was the lead
engineer on building the Blue Sky application.
Which I did with Expo and React Native.
And I'll just go ahead and spoiler alert.
Wouldn't have been able to do it without the help of
Expo and React Native.
So I'm here to share that story.
My name's Elim Allen.
I'm the founder and CEO of StreamPlace.
If you're watching this remotely right now, that's that
thing.
And I also, from the start, we have built Stream
Place using Expo and React Native WebRTC and
some other technologies that we will get into.
And I'm Reid, the CTO of Skylight Social
.
And we built Skylight on Expo.
I've been using React Native since, like, 2017.
And when we thought about how to build this video app,
we were like, okay, well, we're going to
start with React Native.
And then luckily for us, the video component itself was already
a library that Expo was offering.
So we were able to get, like, a working prototype
in two days and kind of release it before TikTok had gotten
banned last January.
Cool.
So, Paul, just to start with you, you mentioned
, you know, Expo made a lot of stuff possible
.
And so I wanted to start, this is to the whole
panel, but, like, what is Expo specifically made
possible?
What is AppRoto made possible?
I guess those guys built on it.
But, like, how have they kind of combined in building
up Blue Sky, especially in the early days?
Yeah, so should we assume that people know what Expo
is?
I can...
Oh, yes.
Okay.
Maybe I'm kind of happy to give a very quick intro
.
Expo is a way to build cross-platform mobile
apps.
We're the main way of building mobile apps with JavaScript or
TypeScript, and then they run on both iOS and Android
.
Yeah.
Well, and so for us, kicking off, we had
12 people, maybe, when we were first writing the Blue
Sky...
Actually, not even that.
I think we were maybe at, like, 6 when we
were first building the application.
And the reality is that when you have a code base that
is an application for every code base you have, it's
a different product, more or less.
So if you're trying to write for both, you know
, free platforms, really, iOS, Android, and web
, if you're building three different code bases, you basically
have three different products with their own teams that are maintaining their
own roadmaps, their own issue trackers, and
things like that.
And you're kind of just working with each other on the
concepts that you're going to, you know, implement on
each one of them.
You see this sometimes, actually, when you switch between apps
.
Like, I think Twitter for a long time had a pretty
different...
Like, you would get into the Android one and be like
, oh, it's kind of different, actually.
That's interesting.
Because it's a different product.
It's a different team.
So that was just not viable for us.
It was just me doing front-end for a long time
.
And then as the complexity of the product continued to grow and
more features came in, the challenge of the idea of having
multiple code bases became even less viable, even though we were
getting more help.
So having one code base to target all three of the platforms
using technologies that we were already familiar with has certainly helped as
well.
TypeScript and React and, you know, essentially CSS,
kind of a CSS variant, really helped us hit the timelines
that we needed.
And it's no joke.
You can't ship just iOS or just web or just Android
.
It's very, very limiting to do that.
And people expect to have the platform be available in all three
places.
So I don't think we would have been able to accomplish
the rollout that we needed to do and hit our business
objectives if we weren't using Expo and React Native.
Yeah.
And so, Eli, same question to you, although I
'm curious also for Streamplay Switches obviously dealing with video
, like how is that working with Expo and kind of
shipping to multiple platforms?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, the first part of the answer is the same
, right?
Like, so building any kind of Twitch competitor, we very
much needed an iOS, an Android app, and a website
as quickly as humanly possible.
And I just don't think there's...
Maybe there's other frameworks that would argue with it, but
I think Expo's the most credible way to try and
do all of those things.
The other piece for us, you know, part of Stream
play's strategy as a company is that live video infrastructure and
software is very, very difficult, one of the harder things
you can do in technology.
And a lot of the other teams in the atmosphere aren't
very excited about taking that on.
So from the beginning, we've really, really wanted to
...
As much of our code as possible needs to live in libraries
that are accessible to other applications that they can access.
And so that eventually means...
Unfortunately, because Expo is not the only framework in the
world, that does eventually mean we need to...
And we have, in various stages of development, we have
sort of like React Native slash web library.
That's the main one.
And then we've got like a Flutter library in development
.
We've got a native Swift OS library in development.
We'll probably do something for Android at some point.
But in terms of getting the biggest slice of the pie that
we could as quickly as possible, building that with Expo
and React Native and building that library made a lot of sense
.
Unique challenges of dealing with video.
I would say that for us in particular, if you're
watching the live stream now and it's working, which it
seems to mostly be doing so, I attribute that mostly to
WebRTC playback.
That's the technology we're built on.
It's the same technology that's used to power Google Meet
.
And if you've had a conversation in a web browser with
somebody who is built on WebRTC, it's very
good at, for example, if something goes wrong, reco
vers because it's trying to play back the video as quickly
as possible.
That's been a pain.
Even with as much help as we can get from the frameworks
and stuff, we've had to get something like picture-
in-picture playback working.
So when you navigate out of the app, you still have
it up there in the corner.
We needed to use forked versions of different WebRTC
libraries, do our own native builds, building all of this
in an open source way that theoretically other people could build.
So that means something we don't use from Expo is
like the, I'm blanking on the name, the
like cloud build.
Yes, yeah.
You know, because we need to be able to like build
all of everything ourselves in a Docker container.
So yeah, yeah.
I would say like once we got it all wired up,
it worked pretty well, but definitely like the build process was
a big challenge.
Yeah.
And then Reid, you're also dealing with video in a
kind of different format.
So I'm curious how you've dealt with that in similar
and different ways.
Yeah, I'm lucky that, I think it wasn't
that long before that you guys released a new Expo video
package.
And that helped me out a lot, obviously.
Because it did allow me to start with like Expo Go
.
And like you're able to build these native modules in Ex
po.
It's kind of the most important part of it that you
can go to the native side instead of the JavaScript side whenever
you actually need it.
So you're kind of never limited on what you can do
.
But Expo Go is kind of like the preset group of
modules.
And it just allowed us to focus on the things that like
the users were caring about.
Because we kind of immediately had a lot of people who were
like interested in using our app or using our app.
We had about 150,000 users in the first three months
.
And so there wasn't a lot of time to work on
anything except for things that the users were actively like in our
comments about.
And because of Expo is basically like we just got to
work on like those specific behaviors.
Somebody would report a bug and because we could do over-
the-air updates which are like JavaScript-only updates we
could fix it like immediately and then comment back and then just
move on to the next thing and just do that over and
over and over again.
Versus if it was a Swift app we would have had
to go through a whole App Store deployment of several days before
they ever got feedback.
And they would have just given up on us basically in those
three days.
So yeah, that's been my experience.
That makes sense.
And then so Paul, I'm curious, you mentioned earlier
like you have to build for a bunch of different platforms and
like now in the kind of mobile space it's really easy
to iterate on web and kind of before Expo there wasn
't an easy way to iterate on mobile.
But I'm curious why you even target mobile in the first
place?
Like why is mobile kind of important to Blue Sky as a
platform?
Well, the web mobile experience in a web browser is you
know, pretty good but there's a lot of interaction patterns
that you just can't accomplish.
One hopes that PWAs will someday yeah, yeah.
It seems to get jammed up and it seems to be
some kind of politics between Apple, I think, and Google
.
Like Google really wants it because they're sold on web tech
, right?
So I think it's Apple that's kind of jamming
it up.
But the gestural interfaces are very much the expectation with mobile
and I'm doing a mobile web application right now and I
had to stop and go I can only tap.
How do I design this?
This is very interesting.
I found some stuff, you know, but it's a
little weird.
I also can't do vibrations so there's no haptic
feedback which is the worst when you press on a button and
it doesn't give you a little oh gosh.
So like you get a little bit crippled whenever because the
web is they've Apple has been pretty opinionated about like
the web should be for web documents essentially it's just not
their applications runtime and so you've got to go native for
that reason that's reason number one is the usability of the
application and reason number two is that people look inside of the
app store to find the apps.
That's just how it works.
If you're not there then you don't exist and I
think that's pretty much it.
You want to have a good experience people aren't going to
accept less.
There are still some people I mean the only people that are
really hardcore on the web are the big real big nerds
so you kind of have to meet people where they're at
and that's native.
Yeah and so then same question for you like why is native
kind of mobile apps why is that important for a stream place
?
Yeah I would say it's just sort of table stakes to
be taken seriously in terms of releasing something and the other piece
of course is we want to be able to stream from phones
and I think that you wouldn't be taken seriously as a
streaming platform if you didn't have that capability and so that
was very very necessary to go to mobile.
It hasn't always been the difficulty of building this in sort
of a library fashion for other mobile apps has been a particular
challenge.
I don't know if there's a good there's a
funny story on like the interaction between Skylight was one of
the first apps to integrate Stream Place live streaming and we accidentally
did a thing where when you log into Stream Place one of
the first things we do is create a place.
stream.
actor a place.
chat.
profile record because it shows what chat color that you have
and of course that makes perfect sense when you logged into Stream
Place then we integrated into Skylight and I didn't realize
I had kind of put that in the library code instead of
the app code so as soon as you booted Skylight
you got a place.
stream.
chat.
profile record even if you hadn't interacted with like the
Stream Place features within Skylight which made us seem sort of
aping off Skylight's popularity a little bit because all
of a sudden we were like the second most popular we were
like the most popular non-blue sky lexicon in
the atmosphere because of that integration which I guess felt good but
wasn't really legitimate so yeah in that context like figuring out
but I think you know as much as like the atmosphere stuff
has been built to be interoperable some of the norms
around that kind like what what does make sense there right like
probably if you're going to go tap into chat and participate
in it then it would be appropriate for us to create that
record and we just like don't really have community norms around
that kind of thing yet so I don't know I think
I went away for your question a little bit but that was
that was a unique challenge interesting and that that was a really
funny story I'm guessing you're asking me the same question
yeah basically I want to add to Eli's story because what
it initially started was he thought he was being attacked like by
the like a DDoS attack it was like no I
just added your library to our code base but it was really
important for us probably even more so than these guys because the
gesture of like swiping through TikTok is like so specific and
it would have been impossible to do in the web I tried
like on day three to like try to do it and it
was like the way that Safari works is like you have to
go click something to start playing a video they won't even
let you kind of do this thing that TikTok does so we
don't even really have like that much of a web app
it's just all mobile for us I see and then just
to follow up on that like what was scaling like for you
with X because you mentioned I think Blue Sky also had this
a bit just like going from kind of your user growth was
so crazy and was Expo part of like enabling you to
scale in that way yeah I think so because it was we
just were able to be so client focused because they had kind
of like built all this infrastructure in a way that we could
use it we could really just focus on like the client and
trying to reach parity on that side and client based solutions but
then also when we did need like server code there was like
EAS hosting and it was like we could just throw it
in the same code base it wasn't a whole separate thing
for us yeah and so then I'm also curious just as
a kind of state of the ecosystem like if there's anything
that you guys want to just think is really cool that you
've seen in either that portal world or the Expo world
that you want to shout out or just are kind of excited
to build with oh well I mean my talk in what 15
minutes is like non-stop shout out so you can't
give away my talk I don't want to spoil your talk
so I'm sorry so actually I am going to pass because
I have a lot of it so this is becoming part of
the at proto world but media over quick is the sort of
next generation way that we are going to replace both sort of
traditional HLS based video playback on the internet especially for live
streams as well as WebRTC and yeah it's just
like all of the different arrows that we used to use all
of these different protocols for are moving toward media over quick as
well as two Cisco engineers recently put out a paper explaining how
you would do at proto relay data over media over quick which
totally blew up StreamPlace's technical roadmap because I'm
like oh I thought we would do mocks someday and it
was like oh that'll be like a fun optimization but now
it's like oh this is the only protocol we would ever
need for everything at proto data media data we can just like
speak one language across absolutely everything so yeah every time I talk
to anyone from Expo I'm like please Expo media
over quick like the existence of that library is going to make
my life so much easier and also it'd be good for
like people's battery life and everything but like mostly mostly me
would be good we'll work on it yeah yeah I'll
say on the Expo side the liquid glass stuff that you
guys have to just be able to get that and not and
it doesn't it's not like super hard to configure you
can get the accessory view stuff that's really nice to be
able to kind of provide the high fidelity experience for iOS apps
and stuff like that so I'm curious also just to kind
of for the whole panel like at proto conference is there a
kind of weird or interesting way that you're using the protocol
that maybe isn't exactly as it was designed but like works
really well for your specific use case I have a feeling Eli
might have some specific that was the question that I should have
told that story in response to I have another one though which
is so I found myself this is a little bit of a
preview of my VOD talk in an hour or two but
I found myself in a situation where so you know you've
got one stream place architecture you've got one server that's
ingesting the live stream and signing all of the segments that
come in and then I needed to start archiving them and
making it available across lots of different servers especially so you can
provide what live stream engineers call DVR right so you can
seek back from the live stream and go see what happened a
couple minutes ago in order to make that happen I needed to
sync that data from the origin server to a bunch of other
servers and I realized what I had was like all of these
little blobs and I needed to have a sync protocol that
could go from one server to another and make sure that they
both got an up to date state and I started coding something
and I'm like wait a minute this is an app proto
repository that's exactly what I'm doing so that'll be
in the VOD talk that's kind of how we're
doing that I have turned it off for relays because you
get a new segment every second we would get throttled
by the entire atmosphere if we released that out so currently that
's like a new peer to peer app proto thing that I
'm going to be talking about in a little bit but yeah
but it all because it's the same primitives it all
does still work so if you're a third party app that
wants to integrate with Streamplace you can subscribe to the Fire
hose on the Streamplace stream and you use all the
existing app proto libraries that you're already using for everything else
so yeah yeah interesting fit I'm not sure how many things
like that there are in the atmosphere right now but we're
going to see what happens if we do at proto but really
really fast cool I don't know if you have any so
I think this is kind of I think related to Rudy's
talk earlier that I believe these apps will kind of move somewhere
between like a bespoke social app but also with like a
bunch of extended secondary features to be kind of like a browser
too that's what we kind of saw from Skylight's
users that it was like there really wasn't any reason not
to show all the other stuff that's going on and it
was actually really powerful for getting for like kind of delivering a
core user experience where it's like hey look like this might
be a video first app but there's actually like these posts
and they might be related to the stuff that you liked watching
as a video and so I think and this kind of then
relates to Expo that if we're all kind of doing
the same things we can have these libraries and we all end
up with like these slightly different versions of browsers and stuff that
's probably what the future looks like cool I don't know
if you have anything weird ways using the protocol in unexpected ways
you're kind of linked to the protocol yeah we had an
unfair advantage on that we actually I mean I guess I can
use the answer's not really but two things do come to
mind one of them is that I didn't think bridging
to ActivityPub would work I told Ryan like don
't even try it and he proved me wrong like big time
that works shockingly well so I suppose that in a way
is a bit of an abuse of it especially the you know
like the automatic kind of mirroring of the accounts and the
infrastructure I kind of still can't believe that worked yeah woo
what was the other thing I was going to say I think
I lost it that's how I said yeah and then kind
of on that same note I'm curious for all of you
guys if there's anything that you could like snap your fingers
now and just ignore all of the technical complexity and implementation if
there's something you'd like to be in that protocol oh
that's easy I don't want to spoil your talk that
one won't spoil my talk it's the permission data system
yeah I think everybody's kind of on the same page with
that I mean the good news is that like now it's
a dedicated work stream right Daniel published his kind of informal version
of the proposal that we're making there's a number of
different proposals also from the community that have been getting shared so
we're going to be able to come out of the conference
and start to side by side all of them and drive towards
actually having permission data and so I've been saying like okay
by the middle of the year let's try to have this
thing actually in production and getting to go and I guess we
'll get to look back on the video you know next year
and see if I was right or not but that's roughly
if I could snap my fingers now I would have it because
I think that's the last kind of really big fundamental piece
to the technology before we can just start to build any kind
of application we want so I'm very excited for that I
'm doing good at answering your questions one too early because I
would say it's the expo media over quick thing something
else I'll throw out there's obviously always I don't
have the solution yet but there's obviously always tons of room
in taming OAuth complexity that's one of the most
you know difficult things for people to implement in particular for us
there have been three stream place front ends created by third party
developers since the beginning of this conference two days ago which I
don't know if that's not like a good review of
our front end people are like I gotta make my own but
it's awesome that it's possible but it's a really
weird interaction because when you log into stream place itself we do
server side OAuth and have you know access to your key
which is important for live streaming because we update stuff in your
repository without you being there taking actions right like when you have
a live stream going it updates the time stamps on it and
all of that is automated I have no idea yet what the
relationship between that and like these third party applications look like are
they gonna OAuth to stream place and then to something else
and then through this other front end and like add another layer
in there is there some way to do these automated interactions when
you log in with the other app and you're streaming in
I don't know so like that's yeah lots of complexity
there that like we just need to figure out stories around all
that stuff yeah I'd say for my side the thing that
I'd like to add to the protocol other than the permission
data would be if we could basically bring like our AI with
our data to these applications to have a kind of like an
agent that you own so it's not meta's intelligence or
personalization system recommending you videos it's your own like paid
for Claude or whatever subscription and I think in particular for
us we kind of figured out that one of the limitations we
were gonna hit is how much personalization we could actually do
for Skylight and if it would have made a pretty significant
difference if we could have relied on the users themselves to kind
of cause that personalization to happen to their app yeah cool
and then one final question I guess I think there are a
lot of people maybe watching who have seen the app proto but
haven't really like experimented with it and I think there
is a bunch of technologies like Expo that make it easier
but do you guys have any pieces of advice for kind of
developers who've looked at it but haven't yet played around
with it or maybe just something that the app proto makes super
easy that's exciting okay yeah well I've got a little
bit of a canned line that I'll hit you with on
that so like I would say that Expo and App Pr
oto the similarity between them is that they're both web heads
invading other things right so like Expo is taking web
technology and invading native application development and making it so that
you have one shared thing and I think that the app protocol
is the same story it's the mentality and ethos of
web application developers people that believe in the open web applying that
to the server side of things the other commonality is that
they both do a lot for you they kind of help you
get to where you want to go faster and I think that
as Expo has matured a little bit longer than App
Proto has as App Proto gets even more mature it
's going to feel even more kind of like back into the
service as a protocol in a way where you're getting accounts
for free you're getting access to the network by default and
increasingly hopefully helping with cold start you know being able to tap
into existing activity networks and things like that so yeah I guess
the tip would be check the docs and ask the agents because
they are getting hooked in cool you want to ask some questions
yeah something I think that App Proto is super good for
that I think is underutilized right now is real time
applications where you get immediately you get immediate you know the UI
re-renders as soon as data comes in StreamP
lace chat when I first wired it up I thought I was
like let's do it this will be funny this will be
like a little hacky way we'll do it what I
'm going to do is just make a chat message and then
push it to the user's PDS and then it goes
all the way from that PDS to the relay to the
StreamPlace app view and then there's another WebS
ocket that goes all the way back to the browser and we
're going to see like oh it'll be funny it'll
be like so slow but it'll be like kind of like
chat that's working and it's just great it just kicks
ass like it's so fast it's like the finality
in that like you know we do the standard reactive rendering thing
where you type in we like render it in the UI as
soon as you type it in but even if I didn't
do that the round trip from browser StreamPlace PDS
relay StreamPlace browser is it's like a second it
's like so fast and it feels like a totally responsive application
yeah and I don't think maybe the missing piece there is
like there's not there's not necessarily like a way for
a standardized way for an app view and a browser to communicate
so maybe that's like a barrier to people to get started
with it but like literally just like make the records JSON and
send them down the WebSocket and it works super super
well cool yeah and I'd say that as a React developer
as like my background I got it I like learned about App
Proto from Dan Abramov giving a talk and kind
of recognizing the same principles that I loved about React were like
kind of represented like the composition pattern of how you can have
data from these different lexicons and they all come together
and yeah I think it's just kind of like those same
good concepts applied to the back end fantastic okay well I think
we're out of time but thank you guys all so much
for being here and thank you all for coming